Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
[SOFT RHYTHMIC BREATHING]
[HONKING]
- [BEEP]
- [IN SPANISH] I am the Shaman.
[BIRDS TWEETING]
[STEVE] I can't tell you the reason.
or even the day I knew
something was wrong.
Was it stress?
A few genes on a strand of my DNA?
A virus? Was it all of those things?
None of them?
You hate yourself.
And you hate yourself for hating so much.
[NATIVE AMERICAN SONG PLAYING]
It's very difficult for me to accept
that this is where I am.
I feel like I need to create
some sort of meaning out of it.
I want to love and be loved.
I just miss the emotional capacity.
I want to feel again.
[JAMES] I grew up in a small.
affluent town outside of Boston.
When I first arrived
at a school like this.
I thought I was on the brink of making it.
I thought I was on the brink
of finding it with a capital "I."
because I was going to
the best school in the country.
And that to be a guarantee that
I was on the right track.
That's what I thought in my head.
Uh. the reality was very different.
The school has a motto. which is Non Sibi
which is "not for one's self."
and that's a motto I truly believe in.
But in practice. despite the prestige
and the wealth that is here.
we're acting like animals.
Even if it is with a bow-tie.
[WOMAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
[MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
Kids are under a lot more pressure.
um. than they used to be.
Uh. I don't think that
their role in life is as clear.
If you were to ask me what pushed him
over the edge. I would say
he needed to perform at the highest level.
that he needed to get the academic degrees
in order to consider himself successful.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
[JAMES] When I started feeling terrible.
I started pushing myself
in ways that my body and mind
couldn't sustain.
I did what society told me to do.
I did what my parents told me to do.
and by age 21. 22...
uh... I was dead.
Just parking the car up
to the side of this bridge
and looking down
at these railroad tracks. and uh...
[SNIFFLES] Just thinking. you know...
just actually. just finding great relief
in... in the idea that. you know.
I could. like. end the pain
of what I've gone through.
I remember...
I remember thinking two thoughts.
One was. "Thank God you can buy guns
at Wal-Mart in America."
And the other one was. "I think
if I did it I'd put my neck on..."
- "On the railroad tracks."
- [RAILWAY BELL SOUNDING]
[TRAIN APPROACHING]
The greatest concern was that he might be
so depressed that he'd hurt himself.
Kill himself. And so psychiatrists
at M.G.A. decided it would be
appropriate for him to
be admitted to McLean's.
[JAMES] I'm so convinced my life is over.
I actually elected to have
electro-convulsive therapy...
um. which actually
happens right over here.
A metal rod attached to your head
and they give you a shock
and you get a seizure. and. uh...
it can lift depressive symptoms
or even schizophrenic symptoms.
It's one of the methods of last resort.
- [MAN EXHALES]
- [MACHINE BEEPS]
[DR. MASON] Essentially is like
rebooting your computer
when you can't get it to work. it's stuck.
And you just turn everything off
and you reboot it. and...
at times in the human brain
when you do that
you can actually effectively recover
from a severe depression.
- [RAPID BREATHING]
- [MACHINE BEEPS]
[ELECTRICAL BUZZING]
[RAPID BREATHING CONTINUES]
If you've experienced depression.
you know. I'm not just a little bit sad.
I wake up every day. you know.
just feeling like. just hell.
[DR. MASON] Non-drug therapy seem
to engage him in any way.
Cognitive behavioral therapies
and the group interactions.
uh. he just wasn't interested
or felt they weren't productive at all.
James at one point really turned around
and felt that
the whole psychiatric institution
had harmed him.
That the drugs had given him
might have permanently damaged him.
[JAMES] I'm not prepared to feel this way
for the rest of my life. and. uh...
You know. I just hope maybe I can...
I can find a way to...
you know crawl my way
or begin to crawl my way out of it.
So I give myself ten months.
And. if nothing's changed after that.
I kind of feel like...
you know. I have a right to kill myself.
I've... I'll give myself a license
to... to kill myself.
[ELECTRONIC VOICE]
911. Do you need fire. medical or police?
[MAN] We have a code yellow here.
missing patient known as James Freeman.
his parents have been informed.
how should we proceed?
[FLIGHT ENGINE ROARS]
[JAMES] I just got out of the hospital.
Um. I'm not going back.
I just don't feel like anything that's
going on in there is helping me.
I read about ayahuasca
in National Geographic
I heard it has helped
people with depression.
I just decided to come to Iquitos
and start looking for someone
who can help me out.
A center or a shaman.
an individual or just anyone
who knows what they're doing
and who I think is well-intentioned.
someone I can trust.
[WHIMPERS]
The shamans down here have been using
ayahuasca for thousands of years.
I'm skeptical about shamanism and spirit
and keeping my fingers crossed.
Take a sip.
Come out. Would you like ayahuasca. man?
Ayahuasca. many visions.
It's OK. it will clean your life.
[MAN] If you want to change.
Ayahuasca. good price. my man.
[SNARLS]
[IN SPANISH] The path is closed.
but we can open it for you.
[IN SPANISH] I did a treatment
for three and a half months.
In 115 days I cured AIDS.
[IN SPANISH]
Christ presented himself twice
during ceremony and told me...
"What you are drinking.
I drank at the Last Supper."
[JAMES] People are trying to sell me
all sorts of things. plants. medicine.
And they're telling me
they can cure whatever.
There's definitely a business side
to what's going on down here.
I'm not looking for God.
I'm not looking for spirit.
I'm not looking for any of that.
I feel like it's going to take
something miraculous to heal me.
Everyone I meet is
really enamored with Guillermo.
singing his praises.
this is the best shaman.
You know. here's this magical man
that's going to save your life.
[FOLK MUSIC PLAYING]
[GUILLERMO SPEAKING SPANISH]
I demonstrate what love.
tranquility and interior peace is.
I make human beings love
and value themselves.
Ayahuasca is a medium.
Not only to discover the light.
not only to discover the disease.
but many other things.
[JAMES] Going to my first
ayahuasca ceremony tonight.
I won't be able to drink it because
I'm still weaning off my medication
and it could interact with the ayahuasca
and that could be really dangerous.
Possibly even fatal.
Apparently the shamans
can still do work on you
even if you're not drinking the medicine.
They use their songs.
which they call icaros.
What exactly they are doing.
I'm not entirely sure.
[MAN SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
May Mother Ayahuasca guide your journey.
give you power. protection. wisdom.
discipline. and love.
[EXHALES]
[INDISTINCT MUTTERING]
[EXAGGERATED MOANING]
[JAMES] He was going through something
extraordinarily intense.
[MAN 2] ...became so strong that there
should have been an intervention.
[JAMES] I searched for my flashlight.
I was curious to see
what was actually happening.
[MAN 2] It might have had something to do
with the medicine he was taking.
[JAMES] Man. this...
This is something else.
[WOMAN] Someone should be checking.
[MAN 2] He's beating himself.
[INDISTINCT TALKING]
Somebody please do something.
[MAN 2] The was something going wrong.
He had blood in his mouth.
[MAN CHANTING]
[CHANTING FADES]
[IN SPANISH] Cause of death:
Lung failure. brain failure.
Death by suffocation... that led
to cardiac arrest.
I'm all right. here it's always relaxed.
He insisted on getting ayahuasca
even though I told him not to drink it.
so I gave it to him.
[JAMES] I was sitting closest to him.
I walked by his dead body.
I smelled what a dead body smells like.
I've never had anything like that
happen to me in my life.
I was... I was incensed.
You know. I was furious. that
the... people here had been negligent
in caring for the safety of this man.
This is supposed to be the perfect place.
Guillermo. the big shaman. the big healer.
Pretty shocked about what happened.
and I've only been here a couple weeks.
Back to trying to find someone else.
[IN SPANISH]
In 64 years of Shamanism.
I haven't had one death.
[CHANTING]
[CHANTING CONTINUES]
I was not aware that somebody died
in the ceremony next to James.
Who are these shaman. and are they
legitimate or are they charlatans?
And who are the good ones
and who are the bad ones?
Who are these people
that we have never met
we... they have no credentials.
we have no way
of finding anything out about them.
And they're giving our son
hallucinogenic drugs out
away from civilization.
Any parent wonders
what could we have done differently.
It is a black cloud
that hangs over your head
every minute of every day.
You feel like you've damaged somebody
you deeply love.
And you remember all the things you did
that you wish now you'd done differently.
[HENS CACKLING]
[DOG BARKING]
[JAMES]
I ran in to some foreigners in town
who suggested that
I check out an American.
I speak a little Spanish.
but having someone who speaks English
might be really helpful.
[RON] So this is my treasure chest.
With this closet.
plum full of bottles of ayahuasca.
it will have a value of almost.
somewhere around $250.000.
[INDISTINCT BACKGROUND NOISE]
The Ayahuasceros flood here.
This is like the gold mine of ayahuasca.
Many Ayahuasceros around this town that
use their powers in very wrong ways.
People are much more concerned about
making a dollar than helping someone.
The healing. the true healers
are out there. but they're hard to find.
And the true healers don't... don't charge.
Every one of us foreigners
living here are guilty
of exploiting these people.
myself included.
Compared to what I pay for the medicine
and what I sell it for.
I make very good money.
I've been a drug addict.
I've had my problems with alcohol.
I spent seven months in prison.
I'm a high school dropout.
I get college professors.
Come and want to work with me
and learn from me.
You know. I'm down here in the jungle
with an ex-con who's a shaman.
who's been down here for 13 years.
He fights roosters on.
you know. on the weekend.
[ROOSTER CROWS]
[INDISTINCT TALKING]
[RON] A lot of people come and they see.
"Ron. you fight roosters?"
And "You work with ayahuasca?"
"You're a shaman and you fight roosters?"
And I've told them. "Well.
I'm also a spiritual warrior".
So this helps keep me in contact
with my warrior spirit.
[CHEERING]
People don't have a real clear view on
the whole spectrum of life and nature.
This is not someone who. five years ago.
I would have taken seriously at all
because of my academic background.
You know. he was not successful
by the standards that I define success.
Am I happy? I'm sick. dude.
I'm really fucking sick.
It has nothing... It's not like.
this is so frustrating.
Like. people can't understand this.
I look at a beautiful woman
and I feel nothing.
I look at a sunset. I feel nothing.
I have no ambition. I have no desire
other than to feel human again.
You know?
[SICKLE CUTTING THROUGH PLANTS]
[RON] They plant their garden
in the jungle. it's cut and slash.
So. before they can plant their garden.
you have to cultivate.
you have to clear it first.
So they look at the human body
the same way.
Before you can teach it.
or before you can heal it.
first you have to clean it.
So. Ohey is a very strong purgative.
Pushes all the bad energy out of you.
But when it does that.
you sort of. like. experience...
all that badness before it leaves.
And so the day you take it.
it's just like.
it makes me feel like
I'm back at step one.
And it's gotten a little bit easier.
but. it's just... it's hard.
So I told James. I said.
"It's not some place to come"
with a bedside manner. where I sit
and tell you everything's gonna be fine.
I talk to you all day.
I tuck you in at night.
It's not this cushy-cushy stuff
you're looking for.
"It's you do the work."
The real work is with the patient
and the medicine
that they're working with.
In our western society. we are creating
a lot of problems with these pills.
That we. and everybody
is looking for the one pill.
I can just take this one pill
and everything's fine.
It doesn't exist.
With our natural medicines.
these things don't happen.
[CLANGING]
[JAMES] All the medication seemed
to represent to me was.
was symptom management.
Was a... a kind of "go back to sleep.
James. and get back into the game".
My husband and I. being physicians.
um. had the privilege
to really know enough about the system
to see what the flaws were.
The psychiatry division here is ranked
the best in the United States. OK?
So. when I go and talk to the colleagues.
the chairman of the department
and ask for a recommendation.
I'm expecting to get somebody
who's really.
exceedingly confident in this field.
I had helped start a company. that was
from a Rockefeller University scientist.
one's a Nobel Laureate. one's probably
the leading neurobiologist in the country.
And I went to one of our board meetings
when James was at probably
one of his really low points
and the Nobel Laureate for neuroscience.
who started this company with me.
said. "Mason. you have to understand.
psychiatrists have no real understanding
of how the brain works."
OK? And. he said.
"Our weapons. our tools. our therapies.
they're so primitive.
because of our fundamental
lack of understanding
of how the human brain works."
When these drugs came out.
it gave psychiatry a sense
that they were like the other doctors
that had good medicines.
And so they prescribe them a lot.
How many people do you know who've been
on an anti-depressant for a year
who can come off it and stay off it?
The desire to do that is fueled by time.
money. and the pharmaceutical industry.
There's no question that that is the case.
[RON] In the plant kingdom. when we take
plant medicines for an illness.
it's not any one thing in that plant
that heals the illness.
It's the combination of everything
working together.
There is no magic bullet.
[JAMES] Just behind my family.
my getting sick was hardest on Kate.
He was so funny and witty and outgoing.
But so smart and sensitive
and intellectually curious
at the same time.
And... there was just... there was
an instant connection between us.
He just... he made everyone
around him a better person.
And he cared so deeply
about the people in his life.
[JAMES] When we broke up.
it was really hard for me.
She was the biggest person in my life.
I miss the person that I knew. and...
the way he made me feel. and...
now it's like sometimes talking to...
like. a... a wall.
[ROOSTER CROWING IN THE DISTANCE]
For somebody to just start dieting
and be able to jump in and do a diet
for a month is very impressionable.
But he's very sincere in his work
in wanting to get well.
[JAMES]
I'm finally gonna give ayahuasca a go.
I've been cleaning my body.
I hope the medicine and the ceremony
can help me understand
what's going on inside of me.
[MAN SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
In the name of the Father. the Son
and the Holy Ghost. that always guides me.
[EXHALES]
[WHISTLING]
Thank you. Dear Lord.
for this day. for this night.
For the people who arrive
to drink ayahuasca.
Thank you for all you give us Lord. amen.
[CHUCKLES]
[INHALES SHARPLY]
[ANIMAL-LIKE LOUD GROAN]
[TRANSFORMS TO WICKED LAUGH]
[CHANTING]
[LAUGHTER]
[KATE'S VOICE] I love James. [LAUGHS]
[JAMES' VOICE ECHOING] Medications...
medications... medications...
[ROOSTER CROWING]
[JAMES] I want to be healthy.
[INDISTINCT FRAGMENTED NOISES]
I feel nothing... I feel nothing...
...to feel human again.
[MAN CHANTING]
[DEEP GROANING]
[JAMES] Medications.
I didn't want to take the pills...
...some traditional American medications.
[RAILWAY BELL SOUNDING]
- [DISGUSTED GROAN]
- [CHANTING AND DRUM BEATS]
[JAMES NARRATING]
I saw moments in my life...
as if there was just some mirror.
Things I'd completely forgotten about.
Everything I've gone through has left
an imprint somewhere inside of me.
I never had self-love.
I didn't know the source of love.
I didn't know how to find that wholeness.
That fulfillment. that completeness.
that feeling of well-being.
of internal love.
The answers that society provided for me
was that comes from a woman.
or that comes from being rich.
or that comes from being famous
and liked by people and being popular.
I don't think those answers are true.
[RON] I've had to tell James
I'm buying a new piece of land.
I'm going to be building a new camp.
I'm going to be very busy with this.
I'm not going to be able to give you
the service that I've been giving you.
[INDISTINCT BACKGROUND NOISES]
[JAMES]
My parents used to call me sentimental.
I remember as child. even as a teenager.
feeling very connected
to the people around
and emotions and music
and all of these things.
I want all of those experiences back.
It's being human. I want to feel again.
[FLUTE PLAYING]
[SHERRY]
Am I ever going to see my son again?
Could he disappear off into the Amazon?
Or kill himself.
or decide that he never
wanted to come back to this country again?
[DR. MASON] I grew up
in a military family.
My dad was an admiral in the Navy.
And. uh. the style of parenting
was. "set the bar really high
and then be critical
when it's not achieved".
I think James struggled with that.
because he was disorganized
a bit as a kid.
I think. you know. he used
to play soccer and he was the goalie
and he'd watch the butterflies go over
and the ball would go by him sometimes.
I mean. he... He didn't focus on
the tasks in front of him
in a way that Western society schools.
other things. require you to do
to be successful by that criteria.
And. I always thought he just
wasn't trying hard enough to do it.
I was driving him into seeing the world
the way I saw the world
and he wasn't willing or able
or interested in
seeing the world that way.
He had an idea of how it should go.
how it is. how it will be.
And I think I was.
I wasn't working in that... in that idea.
And instead of letting that idea bend.
I think I ended up breaking.
And. instead of looking somewhere else...
You know. I...
Instead of...
Forgiveness is not something
you just logically understand
and flip a switch.
You get hurt and it takes work
to come out of.
But when that depression
and that hurt and that anger.
that whole fucking thing goes so deep
that you can't even feel
your own body any more. man...
I read books. I tried to understand
why this happened.
I go. I go to therapy. I meditate.
I try to do good things.
and I say. I tell my parents I love them.
I swallow it even when I don't want to.
I do every single fucking thing!
Every single thing.
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
I heard back at Guillermo's that there is
a Shipibo community
living deeper in the forest.
And in that community. they have
many shamans who still practice
without this business side of things.
where they heal because it's a calling.
I'd be working with Pepe.
[PEPE SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
I feel proud of my community.
I was born here and my family lives here.
People recognize me as a healer.
I'm happy to try and heal people
from all their sufferings.
When I started to diet to become a shaman.
I was also very sick.
Then one night. the spirit
of ayahuasca visited me.
She told me I would become a shaman.
Until now we never trusted foreigners
because of fear.
Now we open the doors of our community.
We prepare the flower bath
by extracting
the different medicinal plants.
The energy of the plants penetrates
and affects the deepest cells of the body.
It cleans it from anxiety.
tension or any bad energy.
[JAMES] According to them. this bath is...
going to revitalize me
and clean me of bad energy.
And provide nourishment
on some level to my nervous system.
I've walked around
really thinking I know a lot.
and if any of what they are saying
is true down here.
then maybe I know really. really little.
I'm just trying to keep an open mind
and not be judging any of this.
And... I think there's
a part of me that maybe
believes that that itself is healing.
For me. James has good insight.
he understands everything we talk about.
[JAMES] They're brewing ayahuasca today.
I've been told by Pepe it's actually
the plants that approached them
and communicated to them
how to make this brew.
The fact that these two plants
in a jungle that has
tens if not hundreds of thousands of
different species of plants
have been selected
and put together is amazing.
[WHISTLES]
[JAMES] We head in to the Maloka.
which is the ceremonial space
and we are presented
with a cup of ayahuasca
and it is just
the foulest tasting thing I've ever had.
The shamans have a pipe in hand.
which they light.
And inside that pipe is tobacco.
called Mapacho.
So then we wait for maybe a half an hour
until we start to feel
the effects seeping in.
[SINGING A TUNE]
[SINGING IN NATIVE LANGUAGE]
So the shamans say that these Icaros.
these songs that they're singing
have actually been taught to them
by the plants
which they have dieted
in isolation drinking these plants.
It's from them that
the source of the healing comes.
And... the songs are the way
of transferring that healing.
[RAPID BREATHING]
[SINGING]
[BREATHING RAPIDLY]
[LOW GROANING]
[JAMES] It felt like I was in a dream
and at moments was experiencing dread
and in others. like I was feeling
uplifted and encouraged
and if not well. then at least
on a journey to finding that.
There's some life coming through me.
I think it's the plants.
But also seeing how
the society down here works.
How these Shipibo people raise their kids.
it doesn't seem that there's the same
amount of pressure
to become something down here.
I loved playing soccer as a kid.
Yeah. I was a goalkeeper.
At some point. you know. I just thought
I was. like. too busy to play soccer.
I didn't have time to play sports anymore.
I had to be working.
You know. I had to be
doing something serious.
And by the time I got to college.
how does this relate to my getting
the best grades I possibly can? And. uh...
and soccer unfortunately
didn't really fit in to that.
[CHILDREN SHOUTING]
Some of Guillermo's apprentices
who've started
a non-government organization. an NGO.
are coming to Santa Rosa de Dinamarca...
intending to start something
like a center down here.
[GUILLERMO SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
I will train the gringos
in preparing medicinal plants
and become shamans.
[JAMES] It's strange to me
to see Guillermo after what happened
at his center back outside
of Iquitos with the death...
and to see him coming here.
carrying on business as usual.
[PEPE SPEAKING IN NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Our grandfathers were people
that worked
for the benefit of the community.
Now that has changed
because of the ayahuasca business.
[JAMES] Pepe is getting worried
that all of this
is going to create
a very different atmosphere down here.
And there's going to be jealousy.
and the issues of money are
going to start affecting everyone here.
[SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
[MAN] Thanks to the tourists.
we have the funds
to see the whole community
prospering soon.
[CROWD APPLAUDS]
[IN ENGLISH] The project of our NGO
is to cure the Shipibo people.
And it's through the medicine
that we'll find a solution
to educate people
and change their mentality.
[JAMES] All this business. everything
that's going on here around ayahuasca
is very stressful to me.
Your first diet
will be tobacco and your pipe.
[JAMES] The shamans have something
called a Dieta.
which consists of living in isolation
and ingesting plants.
I'm going to be starting
with Mapacho tobacco
and eating only rice and fish.
I'll be doing that
for the next four months.
alone with my mind.
[HISSING]
It's really hard sucking down tobacco.
You're trying to get stuff out
and you're probably going to vomit.
[GROANS]
From the moment I vomited.
it started to pour rain.
These plants are extremely powerful.
More fevers. more cramps.
sweat. nightmares.
You know. there's not anyone around
right now. there's no speaking.
You know. just you...
the sounds of the jungle...
and the mental clock just tick.
tick. tick. tick.
Since I've been here. I've dieted five.
six plants. mucura. aioscha...
[INDISTINCT]
It's hard work.
There was this. like. feeling of a vacuum.
like a dark. nasty energy.
It felt like I was having surgery.
Oh. my God.
I cannot describe
what just happened to me.
The spirit of Chiric Sanango...
came and visited me.
Threw me on the bed.
went right in to my left side.
ripping out stuff.
Reprogramming my brain. sapping.
I was just powerless.
Paralyzed.
But I knew this was good.
I don't have this. like. ambition.
this drive to prove myself.
to prove that I'm intelligent.
to prove that I'm successful.
I... I don't have this. like.
inferiority complex anymore.
I don't have this... this anger towards.
you know. my father in particular.
You know. it's just...
it's just being all stripped and I have
no attachment to my previous way of life.
I've just had. like.
the most horrifying nightmares.
People I love dying...
- No.
- ...sick. killing each other.
Speaking like a demonic language.
[MAN SPEAKING DEMONIC LANGUAGE]
And having. like.
an exorcism performed on me.
And the plant just
makes me feel like hell.
I hate it. but I love it.
I don't know if it's the devil himself.
it might have been my soul.
Put it in to the back of my head.
Um... I really don't know what this is
going to do. if this really could be it.
I had a vision. like I said.
three... three days ago...
where I was spoken to by presumably...
Ayahuasca herself. and she told me that
I was going to be born again. and...
that. uh... this is
a new life coming. and...
I think. uh. really nervous about
the possibility of what might not happen.
And. and. what could happen. and...
'cause. you know. on the one hand.
there's no reason given.
everything I've experienced out here.
these incredible visions
experiences I've had in my room here.
in my bed. in ceremony.
uh. to think that
this isn't going to do anything.
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
[BUZZING]
[INDISTINCT CALLING]
[FAINT SINGING]
[CONTINUES SINGING]
[IN SPANISH] How beautiful. Thank you.
When you sing like this. it feels
as if you are a plant. it's not human.
it's a very different sound.
You have listened to me.
now I wish to hear you sing.
No... OK.
[WHISTLING A TUNE]
♪ My brother where do you intend
To go tonight? ♪
♪ I heard that you missed
Your connecting flight ♪
♪ Through the blue ridge mountains
Over near Tennessee ♪
[RESUMES WHISTLING]
♪ You're ever welcome brother
Anytime you like ♪
♪ We'll drive to the countryside ♪
♪ Leave behind some
Green-eyed look-a-like ♪
♪ So no one gets worried no one ♪
♪ But Sean don't get callous ♪
♪ I'm sure it'll be fine ♪
♪ I love you I love you ♪
♪ Oh brother of mine ♪
[INDISTINCT CONVERSATION]
[LOW FRIENDLY GROWLS]
[JAMES] I feel like Pepe is just here
to help people. and heal people.
And there's no image
he's trying to cultivate or project.
And there's something very real about him.
[CROW CAWING]
[WATER GURGLING]
[THUNDER CRASHES]
Yesterday. they threw
Pepe out of the village.
I don't even know where he is.
if he's in Pucallpa now
but he's no longer here in Dinamarca.
I heard it was money issues
between the NGO and the shamans.
There's a lot of hype and fanaticism
and fanfare surrounding this whole project
that's going on down here. but. uh...
I think there's something very naive
and something not quite right. either.
[IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
The NGO accused me of conducting
private ceremonies for the tourists.
they said I need to leave my village.
[CHOPPING]
[JAMES] I'm becoming much stronger
and in a way that I didn't even believe
was possible or necessary.
And it's amazing.
I've been told by someone in the village
that Pepe was going to be back
after a couple of weeks.
It's been at least that long
and I've heard nothing.
He was humble and he was kind
and invested in my care.
and to have him be dismissed is...
I just don't understand
how something like this happens.
I feel like we've switched positions.
we've... traded places. and yet as long as
I can pay that I get to stay.
And it just doesn't make sense to me.
And I feel quite alone
all of a sudden here.
[PEPE] As a teacher I think it's horrible
that they treat our medicine as if
you were prostituting yourself.
[MACHINE BEEPS]
I am the Shaman.
Ayahuasca too is better. Ayahuasca.
The Ayahuasca is better. my friend.
Little by little. the essence
of the plants is being lost.
[JAMES] My time in Peru is over.
No one knows where Pepe is.
I don't get to say goodbye.
I feel sad about it.
I'm grateful that I can feel the sadness.
I wish he knew how highly I think of him.
Pepe is the last shaman I'll work with.
[INDISTINCT]
[MAN] I now understand what James
was suffering from.
His sense of loneliness and desperation.
the feeling of being dead inside.
James could have become a great Shaman.
[JAMES] I think a shaman
is someone who looks...
at the world and doesn't see...
matter devoid of spirit.
He sees life in everything.
he sees an intelligence that
weaves its way through our body.
through the rocks. through the trees.
through the sky.
through the entire cosmos.
And it's an intelligence that
is far greater than anything
man can understand or comprehend.
I'll have to go home and integrate
what I've learned here
to make amends
with the places I come from.
I'm not here to rule the world.
I'm not here to be somebody big.
I'm here to be a very small part
of something much larger than myself.
and that's extremely liberating.
I had found...
a place of peace inside
that I think the longer I can learn to
live in that center of peace.
I believe everything else
is going to come back.
I had to stop reacting and responding
to their programming. their mind.
You know. their plan for James.
because that was not working.
But what kept me going was their hearts.
Because I knew it would destroy them.
and that they really did care about me.
[SHERRY] The greatest thing
I've taken from James's journey
is to be really proud of his courage...
to do something that was such an unknown
and was potentially incredibly dangerous
and just sticking to his guns.
[JAMES] I don't think ayahuasca
is to be worshiped.
I don't think ayahuasca gives you anything
that you don't already have in yourself.
And that was a message given to me
from the plant spirits.
That I hold the key in myself
to whatever it is
I need to do in order to get well.
I'm doing OK.
Yeah. I'm doing all right. Still alive.
That's all we could ask for. huh?
Didn't think it was going to happen.
but here we are.
Still in the woods.
can't get out of the woods.
We're tryin'.
[DR. MASON] I think we all wish
we'd had better. closer relationships
with our own fathers.
I think most men feel that way.
I don't feel he's ready to do that.
On the other hand.
he called me up on Father's Day
and he came home for the weekend
and we talked for an
hour and a half on the back porch
and he talked about the people
around him and what he did
and that was the best conversation
we've ever had. ever. I mean...
you know.
I just wish his journey
hadn't been so hard on him.
You know. I... he's...
An absolutely spectacular human being.
[JAMES] Though I wasn't necessarily cured.
I feel like I came back
with a will to live.
One day maybe move towards medicine
and try to contribute in any way possible
to helping other people
who have found their self
in a similar position as my own.
I'm just taking it a day at a time.
[MAN SINGING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today